So let's do this just a tiny bit differently.
Now kicking off the day with sound, my name is Jam, and if you have questions or comments
about the sessions and so on, I'm going to try and facilitate helping the speakers, getting
the stuff done during the day in this room, and presumably when we have questions I'll
be able to run over with the microphone.
We only have one microphone though, and we are being streamed, so to be nice of us to
speak into the microphone, or if someone's so enthusiastic that they're shouting out
their questions, then if you're the speaker, repeat the question into the microphone.
So today's dev room at FASEM 2024 is on the occasion of the launch of the Open Website
Alliance, which was created by leadership level conversations between four open source
content management systems, WordPress, Drupal, and Type 03, and we have representatives from
three of those organizations with us today to celebrate that launch.
Stop the champagne.
Welcome to the stage.
That was nice when you get to practice.
So here, you hold that.
This is not working.
This is going to be the theme of the day.
I have no confidence.
All right, I'm just going to hold this.
It's all good.
We have one microphone, so passing a lapel mic around is a good exercise in dexterity.
My name is Crystal Deonisopoulos.
I am the president of Open Source Matters, which is the organization that supports the
JUMLA project, and we are very, very excited to help co-found the Open Website Alliance.
I think it's going to be an incredible opportunity for our CMSs to grow and learn together and
share expertise and really support each other, because as we'll be talking about, we have
so much in common.
We have a charter, which we'll put back on the screen for people who missed it.
You can take a look at what we've agreed to, which is, I think it's pretty cool.
So thank you.
Hi, I'm Matias Bortlesnik.
I am a board member of the Type 3 Association, banner over there.
And yeah, we didn't fit all of them together, but we are good friends anyway.
Yes.
My name is Matias.
But yeah, we came together in the Open Website Alliance.
First we met around discussing what to do about the Cyber Resilience Act in the European
Union.
And we just continued and we created this amazing charter.
And what I want to say as well is that any other free and open source CMSs who align
with the charter are very welcome to apply and can contact any of our projects and will
lead them into bliss.
And my name's Owen Landsbury from the Drupal Association.
I volunteer on the board there.
And we were very excited to be invited to join the Open Website Alliance to really
further the strength of open source and to have a consistent message that we can tell
the world.
Also WordPress was supposed to be here, but got sick.
WordPress was sick today.
And send their apologies.
So kicking off straight into the program of the day, thank you very much.
Congratulations.
So that's what the schedule for the day looks like today.
It's pretty interesting and exciting.
My name is Jam.
I said that I'll be running the room today and sharing the mic with Matias in the first
session.
And we have people representing a number of different communities and entities that interact
with multiple communities as well.
So I'm really, really happy to be here.
This feels like an incredibly important step in living open source values.